---
title: Learning 11ty
layout: base.html
---

Eleventy is a static site generator

I'd used it at Founders and Coders but never to build a site from scratch

I wanted to create a simple blog and portfolio site, so I chose to go with 11ty

Their resources are brilliant, a [6 minute tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kzf9A9tkkl4) on building a blog from scratch... hot dog!

Getting up and running was very quick, with only a few minor hiccups on the way. What's great about it is how easy it is to create and customise layouts and then to be able to create sleek and uniform pages in only a few minutes.

Deploying the site came with a few challenges. I went with Netlify as a platform, using GitHub integration.

This should have been fairly straightforward but I got an error when deploying the site. I read around a little and most folks recommended simply using the `eleventy` build command and setting the publish directory as `_site`. This would run up an error each time I deployed, exiting with build codes 1 or 2.

I got the site to deploy by removing the customisation. This would deploy, but the site itself was simply the raw HTML rendered from `index.html` without the 11ty layouts or any styling.

I decided to read more about 11ty setup, as well as look at some previous projects I'd worked on and their setup. My site was missing a `package.json` and I wondered if the site I'd built had missed some of the fundamental setup which would allow me to get it set up correctly with Netlify. I ran `npm init -y` in my terminal and installed the 11ty package.
